hey everyone welcome back to the China
story podcast this is your host and
narrator Lazlo Montgomery humble as ever
bringing you part six this time of the
history of tea were past the point of no
return so if you made it this far you
might as well stay till the end since we
started in part one we've looked at the
history of tea from the most ancient and
legendary times beginning was unknown
and how tea cultivation began in you and
Anand and in the Bashu state in su chuan
it began to spread to other parts of
China along the river systems after
China sure Huang unified the country
even in this earliest time although tea
still had a long way to go before it
became the beverage we all know and love
the evolution was well underway so far
we've looked at tea history from
Shandong in 27:37 BCE all the way up
through the Ming Dynasty we closed last
episode with the arrival of the
Europeans they began showing up in the
late 16th century and of course they too
are going to be seduced by the pleasures
of tea and will want it no less than the
Tibetans Central Asians and now everyone
else have got a taste Europeans started
exploring faraway places in the 15th
century and into the 16th people were
traveling all over the place and many
with literary pretensions actually wrote
quite a few nice travel logs
Giambattista Ramu co-wrote a book about
his travels this one written in Italian
in 1559 just after the author's death is
probably the farthest back we can go
with regard when tea was first mentioned
in the West he was Venetian so traveling
was no big deal to him he's remembered
for his contribution to geography in his
book della navigate Sione a vog voyages
and travels ramuh Co served in the
Council of ten in Venice aka the ten so
he was he was somebody and he got to mix
with a lot of interesting people
who came from far-off lands and Venice
being Venice people from all over the
known world came there to do business
Ramu Co got to meet a Persian gentleman
named Chuckie Mehmet and better known as
[ __ ] muhammad his story was so
interesting Rimal give him a whole
chapter in his book and in this chapter
ramu co recalls with this persian [ __ ]
muhammad mentioned to him quote he told
me that all over cafe they made use of
another plant or rather of its leaves
this is called by those people chai
khatai and grows in the district of cafe
which is called sichuan this is commonly
used and much esteemed all over those
countries they take of that herb whether
dry or fresh and boil it well in water
one or two cups of this decoction taken
on an empty stomach removes fever
headache stomachache pain in the side or
in the joints and it should be taken as
hot as you can bear it he said besides
that it was good for no end of other
ailments that he could not remember but
gout was one of them
and if it happens that one feels
incommode it in the stomach for having
eaten too much one has but to take a
little of this decoction and in a short
time all will be digested and it is so
highly valued and esteemed that everyone
going on a journey takes it with him and
those people would gladly give a sack of
rhubarb for one ounce of chai khatai and
those people of cafe do say in our parts
of the world in Persia and the country
of the Franks if people only knew of it
there is no doubt that the merchants
would cease altogether to buy rhubarb
unquote
because rhubarb is mentioned in the
Shandong buns hot Jing or Shan dongs
herb root classic we know it was around
China for a long time and they knew what
to do with it rhubarb in its day because
of its laxative properties was quite
sought after as the kaopectate of its
day and the KO and kaopectate
comes from the word kala night the very
same stuff used to make porcelain that
we discussed last time in part 5 after
Jim Battista demuccio's mention the next
time tea makes an appearance in the
European litter
sure was 29 years later in 1588 again it
was an Italian writing about tea and
Japan quote the beverage of the Japanese
is a juice extracted from an herb called
Chia which they boiled to drink and
which is extremely wholesome it protects
them from pituitary troubles heaviness
in the head and ailments of the eyes it
makes them live long years almost
without Langer the Japanese have as yet
no use for grapes but they make a kind
of wine from rice but that which before
all they delight to drink is water
almost boiling mingled with the powder
ja they are particular about having it
well made the most eminent sometimes
make it with their own hands taking the
trouble to regulate the portions and to
make the mixture for their friends they
even have certain rooms in their homes
reserved for that alone there was always
at hand a kind of covered chafing dish
from which they offer their friends a
drink on arriving or taking leave
unquote the topic of our CHP episode 98
was the jesuit father matteo ricci all
of the Jesuits when they first began
feel around the edges and China
encountered tea they drank it and wrote
about it they probably were the first
European drinkers of tea the Portuguese
were the first European seamen to ply
the China coast not entirely sure what
happened at the genesis of the sino
Portuguese relationship but the Chinese
showed them the door right quick but
they were persistent the Portuguese were
their smugglers and pirates made enough
of a nuisance of themselves on the east
coast of China to influence the
cha-ching Emperor to call for the
leasing of a spit of land in southern
Guangdong and this in 1557 became Macau
the Jesuits were formed in 1540 they
sent michelle Ruggieri to Macau in 1579
and Matteo Ricci arrived in 1582 as soon
as they started to set up shop in Macau
one of the Cheswick fathers Gaspard de
Cruise
wrote of T quote whatsoever person or
persons comes to any man's house of
quality he hath accustomed to offer him
a kind of drink called cha which is
somewhat bitter red and medicinal which
they are wanted to make with a certain
concoction of herbs unquote but a
hundred years later in 1683 prominent
writers and scientists will claim that
tea had powers to cure fevers and some
today's modern society when word got
propagated in certain ways the
popularity of tea soared you see this
was all down in the south where they
pronounced tea cha
if the Portuguese Jesuit fathers had
tried to establish their based in Fujian
they would have been calling it Tay this
is about where we left off last time
where we focused on some historic
aspects of tea that bloomed during the
Ming Dynasty in 1582 when Ricci first
arrived the Ming was already not looking
too good and would be overrun by the
Manchus in 62 years it always starts
like this someone from afar Caesar here
something interesting in a new land and
from the prism of where they came from
they elucidate on this amazing thing for
the people back home Ricci said of tea
in 1610 that the Chinese called this
shrub cha and that they quote gathered
the leaves in the shadow and keep it for
daily decoction using it at meals and as
often as any guest comes to their house
yay
twice or thrice if he makes any tarrying
this beverage is always drunk or sipped
hot and on account of a particular mild
bitterness he's not disagreeable to the
taste but on the contrary is positively
wholesome for many ailments have used
often and there is not alone a single
quality of excellence in the leaf for
one surpasses the other and thus you
will often buy Samet one gold sq or even
two or three excuse a pound if it is
rated as the best the most excellent is
sold at ten and more often at twelve
gold s Q's a pound in Japan where its
use is also somewhat different from that
of
for the Japanese mixed the leaves
reduced to a powder in a cup of boiling
water to the amount of two or three
tablespoonfuls and swallow this potion
mixed in this manner but the Chinese
throw a few leaves in a pot of boiling
water then when it is tinctured with the
strength and virtue of the same they
drink it quite hot and leave the leaves
unquote pretty much from the time Vasco
de Gama rounded the Cape of Good Hope in
1497 for a century all the way till 1596
the Portuguese had the whole Orient to
themselves a man the early bird gets the
worm they were there first so they got
to see T up close first they were also
the first Europeans to purchase it and
take it back to the continent there in
Lisbon Dutch traders would buy this this
novelty tea and take it back to where
they came from the Portuguese didn't
have any marketing savvy I guess
although they were the first Europeans
to discover tea and bring it back from
China they didn't do too much to
popularize it we have the Dutch to thank
for that
in 1595 though the Dutch and the
Portuguese had a trade spat and Lisbon
was closed to Dutch shipping that's why
the Dutch decided to do an end run
around the Portuguese and sail to the
Orient themselves they arrived in
Indonesia
in 1596 and set up a trade center in
Bantam in the western part of Java west
of Jakarta the Dutch people took to tea
first and later would show Europe what
pleasures could be had from this new
discovery the Dutch proceeded to build
in 1619 a trade and distribution center
in Batavia which is in modern-day
Jakarta there they traded in spices and
used that place as a loading point for
all goods traded in China including tea
if you thought Yan and sich one to Lhasa
in Tibet was a long trip the voyage from
the Spice Islands to Rotterdam was even
further how to get that tea all the way
to Northern Europe in large quantities
without any
boilage and mold problems that faced tea
merchants from the earliest days
necessity is always the mother of
invention this is where black tea was
finally figured out and since black tea
is fully a hundred percent oxidized
there's no spoilage no mold no nothing
problem solved
more on black tea later so where was the
origin for all this tea being shipped
from China to Europe Fujian again we
mountain it was transported over several
weeks a considerable distance away down
to Canton 1845 Lee and all you can
imagine all the duties and cumshaw that
had to be taken care of from start to
finish once the cargo arrived in Canton
the Dutch transshipped it to ban time
where it was laden on board a vessel to
Holland and because they did business
initially with Fujian traders they used
the Fujian pronunciation of tea rather
than the Cantonese chai as I mentioned
the Dutch and the Portuguese were first
to market they got naming rights that's
why we in the West call it tea instead
of cha the Dutch were doing great and
the British were finding it difficult to
compete with them so in the last day of
the year 1600 the Queen granted a
monopoly to a group of guys for all
trade east of the Cape of Good Hope and
this of course became the Honorable East
India Company they were going to get
into the tea business in a very big way
two years later after the Dutch got wise
to this they set up the Dutch East India
Company an established basis in
Indonesia and somehow they talked their
way into Japan to trade directly with
them this was always a shaky deal and
before long the Japanese will show them
the door the Dutch had it good in Japan
for a while even helping the Japanese
kick the Portuguese out but before long
the Dutch too saw the writing on the
wall and they started looking towards
China as their source of supply and when
things ended I don't think the Japanese
bowed to them when the Dutch left
16:10 was a banner year in the history
of tea in the West that's when the first
shipment of Chinese tea arrived at the
hague it was green tea not black tea
that would soon afterwards become a
standard when black tea starts shipping
and after Marguerite de la salle er in
France becomes the first person to add
milk to tea this will later be a good
thing for the Dutch dairy industry
because the Dutch seized on this almost
at once and for the remainder of the
17th century one after another the
countries of Europe came face to face
with camellia sinensis by 1635 tea or
the China drink as it was known in its
European infancy had already established
itself in the Dutch royal court
I read that by 1680 every home in the
Netherlands had a room specially
reserved for tea and if they couldn't
afford that they at least had a tea
service the Dutch initially purchased a
green tea called by Hall which in the
local Fujian dialect was pronounced back
whole I mean I don't actually speak any
of the mean dialects but it's close to
that the Dutch could quite get their
mouth around the pronunciation so they
called it picot and as a marketing ploy
and as a respectful nod to the ruling
House of orange they marketed the tea as
orange pekoe and all these years the
name stuck
Lipton always mentions on their package
that their product is orange pekoe and
picot cut black tea the Dutch didn't go
to China to obtain the tea initially it
was brought to their base in the Spice
Islands aka Indonesia by Chinese traders
Dutch vessels then transported the tea
back to Europe from there tea is going
to permeate these European nations in
the exact same way it did in China
it started with polite society first
with the Royals and aristocrats they got
to enjoy it first and this court
patronage would lead to Dutch values and
culture wrapping its arms around this
new
oriental beverage from so far away in
between 1610 to 1640 T was still
somewhat of a novelty drink but as the
decades of the seventeenth century
passed it became all the rage in Dutch
society and where there is a demand
there are always going to be importers
willing to risk life and limb to get as
much of it as possible to supply that
demand by 1675 the Dutch market had been
supplied sufficiently enough so that
anyone in any major city in the
Netherlands could walk to the corner
grocer and buy at n of T European
started with China green tea black tea
or Hong Chai's it's called in Chinese
red tea began its history in the early
Ming Dynasty and we shun northern Fujian
province when the home rule Emperor
pulled the rug out from under them
the producers and woody Mountain needed
to find something new to replace their
top-of-the-line green tea cakes that had
been prized and in demand for so long I
mentioned because of their value these
tea cakes had a secondary use as a unit
of currency now in one fell swoop after
the home will Emperor's edict on loose
tea tea cakes were no longer requested
nor considered fashionable because tea
and its compressed tea cake form was
readily used as a kind of money it
presented complications to the Chinese
state by causing corruption and the
government managed tea industry to
become rampant it said this is one of
the primary reasons why the home will
Emperor said no more cake tea how they
actually chanced upon the way to make
black tea is of course stuff of legends
tea artisans figured out that after
withering and rolling the leaves and
bruising them to step up the cellular
oxidation and working them with your
hands or your feet the process forced
the juices of the tea leaf to be brought
to the fore whereupon the oxygen in the
air mixed with these tea juices crushed
out of the cells of the leaf and
did that thing it does and the leaves
started turning black along the edges
and then before long if you did nothing
to halt the oxidation process the whole
leaf was turned completely black then
the leaves would be fired to stop the
process and what you had was black tea
when the foreigners began poking their
nose around this part of China
they really took two black tea at once
the Chinese are gonna be rather
astounded at this because of their way
of thinking this fully oxidized black
color leaf was something so inferior to
the kind of green teas they liked but it
was green tea that was the first tea to
be exported out of China to the west
this was probably some law tea or as
it's known in the history books some low
tea from some low mountain this is in
Shonen County and on way adjacent to
Huang Shan just to the east of Jean de
Jong so some low tea is going to join Bo
hey Congo Pico and heissen is one of the
great historic teas that the West
imported in great quantities the good
people of some low Shan will tell you
this is where the first pan-fried green
tea was produced in China
green tea had been produced in Songdo
shan since the early Ming and achieved
initial fame for its supposed medicinal
qualities this area will be important
later on in the series when we
introduced mr. Robert fortune he will
take a grand tour of Songdo mountain and
learn all about the secrets of green tea
production there we'll look at this in
part eight of this series one of the
legends as far as how black tea came to
be grown in the wool shine area went
like this the villagers had just picked
their crop of tea and were in the
beginning stages of processing it then
word reached them that some army was
about to pass through their neck of the
woods that was always a cause for worry
because he never knew if the passing
army would wreck the town or not it was
always a possibility that a passing army
might ransack a village looking for food
supplies in this case the soldiers
decided to stay for about a week and the
channel the tea farmers dared not make
any moves while the soldiers were in
their village all the fresh tea
they had just picked was hurriedly
hidden under covers or tarps of some
sort and the soldiers they bivouacked in
the village and seeing these soft
covered mounds of vegetation figured
this would make a perfect place to flop
all these many covered piles of freshly
picked tea leaves ended up being used as
beds and after a week from all the heat
generated by these soldiers and all
their tossing and turning at night had
agitated and twisted the leaves
sufficient enough to cause quite a bit
of oxidation after about a week
the soldiers picked up and vacated the
town the farmers quickly tried to
salvage whatever they could but in the
end looking at all these withered
blackened tea leaves they considered
this a lost cause but some enterprising
person there suggested they rush this
stuff to market anyway and see if
anything at all could be salvaged from
this disaster then as the story goes
there were some foreign merchants I
don't know where they were from they saw
the black tea and purchased the whole
lot and paid the farmer in advance for
next year's crop as well and a new tea
was born it was called Bo Hey
and Bo hey tea is going to act as the
benchmark for the rest of the tea trade
with China I myself don't speak any of
the mean bay dialects as I said but Bo
hay is a foreign bastardization of their
way of saying we so Bo hey it became for
a long time this was the only place in
China where foreigners could get their
hands on black tea the later on even
though the tea didn't come from the
mountain area it would still be called
Bo hey sort of became the Kleenex of
black tea this was the kind of tea
Thomas Jefferson and many of the
American Founding Fathers drank and was
among the varieties of tea dumped into
Boston Harbor
1773 other black teas will be discovered
later on and will also be exported in
massive quantities most notably Keemun
tea or Chi Minh cha which came from on
clay this will make a big splash when it
hits the market in the 1870s the other
one was called Congo that was considered
the premium black tea Congo was the name
in the local dialect for the word gongfu
is in gongfu cha which we discussed last
episode it was called bad because more
work was done to work the leaf than with
Bo hey also Congo used the larger tea
leaves farther down from the bud the
green tea of this age was known as high
Sun tea some lobe oh hey Congo heissen
were the big four teas of the 18th and
19th centuries all the China tea clipper
ships all the smugglers of tea
overwhelmingly most of the tea leaving
China and heading to Europe was almost
always one of these kinds there were
also others but these were the main ones
you always read about in the history
books and saw their names mentioned in
some of the literature from the 18th and
19th century but it's in the 1600s where
all the action begins to happen 16:10 as
I said the first tea reached the
Netherlands showing up in the hague it
takes a while to get the word out far
and wide German people didn't get to sip
their first tea till 1658 years later in
1658 on the streets of London at Gare
aways coffee house and Exchange alley in
the heart of the city that's a capital T
and a capital C T had its debut the
earliest T advert also came out in that
year in the Macarius politicus and
proclaimed quote that excellent and by
all physicians approved drink called gin
Ian's cha by other nations teh alias tea
is sold at the salt in his head a coffee
shop in Sweden's rents by the Royal
Exchange London unquote these English
coffee houses that were
been up everywhere like Starbucks of
today served all three temperance
beverages euchre's had a nice quote from
1659 that said quote there was also at
this time a turkish drink to be sold
almost in every street called coffee and
another kind of drink called tea and
also a drink called chocolate which was
a very hearty drink unquote later on in
1675 charles ii was going to close all
these places down as they were highly
and often correctly suspected of being
places where men congregated Platz
Edition and various manners of
conspiracies as a result of this most of
these coffee houses would start shutting
down and that's when these private clubs
began popping up that quickly filled the
vacuum
16:58 the Year Oliver Cromwell died
that's when the stormy romance began
that would last a lifetime 1660 Charles
a second returned from exile 1660 - he
married the portuguese catherine of
braganza
and it was she who we must bow and
reverence to was Europe's first true
great tea patron when she took up with
King Charles a second in London she
brought with her the Portuguese custom
of taking tea in the afternoon as was
always the case no matter the Tang
Dynasty or the House of Stuart popular
fashions and new things always started
at the tip-top and work their way down
through society so we thank Catherine of
Braganza as the one to introduce this
new beverage to the upper crust of
British society
the British had to get it from the Dutch
at first it wasn't going to be easy for
the British to just walk into China and
take over they purchased the tea from
the Dutch in India then the tea was
consolidated onboard a cargo vessel that
headed back to England people in the
Dutch colonies in the New World by 1670
were already sipping tea supplied by the
mother country by 1674 though New
Amsterdam became a British colony and it
was renamed New York and it was from
that place with all that early Dutch
influence that tea began to spread
throughout the colonies 1682 William
and brought tea to Philadelphia the
American colonists became the next
market of people to notice tea and these
future Yanks would embrace it equally as
impose their British colonial masters in
1684 with China's permission of course
the British were able to get around the
Dutch and send their first vessels
directly to the port of Canton Guangzhou
here lie the humble beginnings of a
British trading empire that would shake
China to its foundations these trading
companies were after the big three of
course T silk porcelain at the genesis
of this trade the amount of tea being
imported first measured in the hundreds
of pounds or kilos once the 18th century
kicks into high gear British vessels
will be hauling millions of pounds of
the stuff back to blady
and it was the Honourable East India
Company who held the monopoly for a
hundred and fifty years for all Far East
trade with Britain they managed the tea
business anything trading in tea outside
their control was smuggled product as
the 18th century dawned to markets for
China's tea stood head and shoulders
above the rest
one was Britain the other was Russia yea
1638 or maybe it might have been 1636
it's hard Michael the first the founder
of the Romanov dynasty he was given a
gift of 150 pounds of tea from a
Mongolian Hawaii it started that way
a Royal gift some tribute and this
initial supply somehow I guess it found
fashion with the upper classes because
something like 40 years later a treaty
was signed that worked out a long term
trade deal between China still in the
Ming Dynasty who at this time are on
their last legs in the house of Romanov
or whoever their representatives were
the way they carried out this tea trade
between China and Russia was via camel
caravan no kidding and just as you had
with the tea horse routes the Chow Magua
doll that went from Yunnan and Sichuan
Tibet
Shanghai they had what was known as the
tea road history began in 1689 as a
direct result of that treaty of
nerchinsk they called it the tea road
because a lot of tea made its way to
Russia along this caravan route it was
also called the Siberian route and it
stretched from Calgon in northern Club a
that is today the city of Jung Jack hall
that was the loading and unloading
points in the east and the men and their
camels trekked along this caravan route
all the way to Moscow it cuts straight
through Mongolia right into Mother
Russia and then it was a long haul west
before these traders were having borscht
again it all began around 1735 during
the reign of Empress Elizabeth of Russia
daughter of Peter the Great and
Catherine the first Russia in China
traded more than just tea there were of
course the usual suspects porcelain and
silk they returned fur of all this stuff
the Chinese got furs textiles hides
hardware and cattle it was a good honest
business because of the logistics and
transport cost he wasn't cheap enough
yet to trickle down to the Russian
masses that still had a way to go by
1796 when Catherine the Great left this
world over three million pounds of tea
was making its way west along the tea
road to Moscow every year that added up
to over six thousand camel loads Russian
importers brought in loose tea but
mostly the Russian market still called
for tea to be made into bricks or at
least up to the 1770s I think I
mentioned in an earlier episode the
Russians didn't give up their tea bricks
too easy an additional advantage of tea
bricks was that well in Russia along
this route and a pinch because of its
intrinsic value it couldn't always be
used as a coin if the ground in fact
some of these tea bricks would be molded
in such a way that you could cleanly
break off portions of the brick you know
to pay for something that costs less
than a full tea brick so
like like a Hershey bar or the reality
show that the old pieces of eight from
the Spanish dollar by the end of the
18th and into the 19th century tea
quietly permeated every village in
Russia by the late 1770s the samovar
took Russia by storm and that iconic
device became the shining Sun from which
all aspects of Russian tea culture
revolved around in 1861 there was a
factory specially built in Hanko that
manufactured tea bricks destined for
Russia isn't that funny how wherever tea
went China you know even different
regions of China and they took Korea
Japan to that Central Asia the Near East
Russia and now Europe and the Americas
wherever tea went it almost universally
took the place by storm and each culture
would see and tea many of the same
qualities that the Chinese did you'll
see in Russia as it was everywhere else
where tea came a-calling all the people
from around the world would welcome tea
into their culture and then put their
own cultural nuances into the pleasure
of drinking tea the unique tea cultures
exist in almost every country I said at
the outset we wouldn't wait too far into
the tea cultures that were outside of
China so I don't want to get pulled in
by the strong gravity of Russia's rich
tea culture if you're new to tea and
want to see what it's all about the
Internet of bounds with videos showing
how the Russians do it and man they know
how to enjoy tea I don't have a sim over
yet but I'm gonna get one many other tea
cultures use sama fires as well in
Turkey Iran in Kashmir in other parts of
the Middle East and Central Asia in 1880
came the trans-siberian railway so you
can imagine what that did for the camel
caravan business the caravans and that
whole world just faded until it just
disappeared altogether
you know they grow tea now in Russia I
did not know that
right where they had the Olympics in
Sochi this team from southernmost Russia
is called the most northernmost grown
tea in the world someone up there in
1901 developed some cultivar tea hybrid
that could withstand the weather and
that balmy as a part of Russia the tea
from Sochi mostly supplies a domestic
market he didn't stop evolving in the
Ming Dynasty the March continued on
during the Chang as well like the tea
loving song Quaid's own emperor both the
kind of XI and especially the Qianlong
Emperor were great tea lovers and
patrons of tea culture Qin long would
hold these very elaborate tea parties
right in the Forbidden City inside the
trunk hua palace where he grew up during
the Ching the number of places in China
producing tea continued to grow by the
time of the Chang all six categories of
team will be in existence white green
yellow red alone and pool are the number
of tea houses already quite plentiful in
China during the Chang grew even larger
and the local tea house had become sort
of a de-facto meeting place for friends
and business people to meet and talk
over tea during the Ching tea house
entertainment took off plays in Chinese
opera became commonplace in these Ching
arity houses the dynasty also saw the
number of new tribute teas increased
more than ever before the proliferation
of foreigners and the opium wars tends
to grab all the headlines as far as
Ching tea history goes but the art of
tea in China continued to inch forward
if you go to Hangzhou and take the drive
just outside of town to visit where they
grow long Jing green tea you'll see
there at who Gong temple a separate area
fenced off where there are 18 tea trees
according to the story the Qianlong
Emperor himself visited this place four
times to mount your thumb so enamored
was qin long with a dragon well tea
there the Longjing cha that he gave
imperial honors to these 18
tea trees the tea loving Qianlong
emperor once wrote quote you can taste
and feel but not describe the exquisite
state of repose produced by tea that
precious drink which drives away the
five sorrows unquote well that was easy
for the Qianlong emperor to say he drank
nothing but the best of the best
traditional chinese tea houses have been
around in one form or another for who
knows how long but they really grew out
of the combination of the emerging tea
culture and the just the general
economic prosperity and good times in
the northern song the whole idea of a
place to go drink tea hang out be
entertained was wildly popular and kept
growing evolving and improving
especially during the southern song when
the capital was moved south of the
Yangtze Hangzhou in the Ming tea house
has sprouted up all over as the common
folk also wanted to partake of this
pastime China is a big country so it
took time for the pleasures of teahouse
culture to make its way down to all the
cities and towns north and south of the
answer but in the ching dynasty the tea
house industry was bigger than ever
before in china's history a lot of the
old ways of drinking tea gave way in the
Chang to new innovative ways of enjoying
tea culture the first hundred years of
the dynasty was a period of great wealth
and prosperity and it reflected in the
kind of tea ware that was produced the
kilns of ching de jong ran hot for the
entirety of the dynasty one work of art
was more spectacular than the next as
far as those porcelain pieces destined
for the ching palace blue and white
remained most popular but in the ching
porcelain teapots were produced in more
colors and in all kinds of cutting edge
shapes yeah compared to the subtle
elegance of the song some of the stuff
coming out of ching - john especially in
the lake ching was quite in a word olga
Pachuca many of these tea sets were
never meant to be used and were only for
display so brisk was the business at
jing DeJohn during the ching the number
of kilns
increased from 20 to 58 the guy won are
covered t-ball that I mentioned last
episode became one of the fruits of the
ching dynasty tea culture though it was
a Ming Dynasty innovation it was during
the reign of Kong XI that it became so
pervasive and widespread tea continued
to be used for all kinds of court
rituals and ceremonies and all the way
up and down the social ladder tea houses
both chic and shabby became the place to
meet entertain see friends hold business
meetings plot revolution or hang out and
compose poetry was during the ching
dynasty that Fukienese tea masters
brought cuttings to taiwan and attempted
to start growing and processing tea
there today and throughout the 20th
century who long tea from taiwan has
been ranked among the finest in the
world
they gave mr. john dodd - partially
thank for that the company he
established in 1864 dodd and company
pioneered the export of taiwanese tea
world markets dad used to work for
denton company until they went bust he
ended up in taiwan and some job and
hooked up with the Fugees from shaman
named lee chuan zhang
together these two became known as the
fathers of taiwan's tea industry tea
grew indigenous leon taiwan but it
wasn't anything good tea seeds had been
brought from wuyi shan day 1 in 1855 and
were planted and dong ding in the lush
northern mountains of lugu nantou county
they grew the tea there but the critical
processing and finishing off was still
handled across the strait fuu-chin
Jardine Matheson the noble house began
their involvement in the Taiwan tea
trade in 1858 wasn't until tea plants
were brought over from across the strait
from Louise Shan and fuu-chin that
things really took off before long many
of these Taiwanese growers were able to
compete head-to-head with their cousins
on the other side of the strait by 1860
9 dot and company was shipping Formosa
oolong tea to the USA only four years
out of our bloody civil war or war for
Southern independence as it's also known
it was a big hit in the US and soon Dodd
was shipping as Formosa oolong to Europe
as well well you know how it is one guy
sees all the profits being made in a
certain business and before long
everybody and their grandmother wants a
piece of it seeing all the profits to be
made others jumped into the fray some
failed and some made a success of it
some went on to build up the entire
industry
well next episode we're going to shift
the focus of our history of tea more to
England and how starting in the 1720s
the demand really started to grow though
still small compared to the peak in 1860
English ships were transporting 1/4
million pounds of tea a year to English
ports Queen Anne reigned from 1702 to
1707 she was the niece of charles ii and
the sister of mary the second wife of
William the third Queen Anne is gonna
play her part in furthering English tea
culture she was the first in England to
use a silver tea service in the royal
household English coffeehouse culture
during Queen Anne and her cousin George
the first time would really take off
these coffee houses were very much a
temperance alternative to the local pub
this English coffeehouse culture would
evolve over the entire 18th century what
am i all-time favorites dr. Johnson he
was the greatest of the great Seward
inhabit these establishments were all
manner of good chair and good
conversation took place
Samuel Johnson 1709 to 1784 was by his
own accounts a hardened and shameless
tea drinker let's close out this episode
with some words from the good doctor who
gave us so many great aphorisms and
worthy quotations in Johnson's day he
was still a modern luxury he was in
demand by the lower classes but
out of their reach price-wise in
addition to being a shameless tea
drinker Johnson claimed that for 20
years he had quote diluted his meals
with only the infusion of this
fascinating plant whose kettle has
scarcely time to cool who with tea
amuses the evening with tea solises the
midnight and with tea welcomes the
morning unquote when tea drinking began
to take root and Great Britain it was
green tea that people initially drink
however by 1760 more than half of all
tea imported into Britain was black tea
dr. Johnson said of the history of tea
and Europe quote tea was first imported
from Holland by the Earl's of Arlington
and ah Surrey in 1666 from there ladies
the women of quality learned its use its
price was then three pounds a pound and
continued the same to 1707 in 1715 we
began to use green tea and the practice
of drinking it descended to the lower
classes of the people in 1720 the French
began to send it hither by a clandestine
commerce from 1717 to 1726 we imported
annually 700,000 pounds from 1732 to
1740 to a million and 200,000 pounds
where every year brought to London in
some years afterwards three millions and
in 1755 near for billions of pounds or
two thousand tonnes in which we are not
to reckon that which is surreptitiously
introduced which perhaps as nearly as
much such quantities are indeed
sufficient to alarm us it is at least
worth inquiry to know what are the
qualities of such a plant and what the
consequences of such trade unquote
Johnson also famously said quote teas
proper use is to amuse the idle and
relax the studious and dilute the full
meals of those who cannot use exercise
and will not use abstinence unquote
dr. Samuel Johnson who said of second
marriages the triumph of Hope over
experience and will put the old
proverbial bookmark in right here next
episode we'll pick
in the 18th century and look at what
happens after prices and taxes come down
in England and your average worker and
the shops or in the mines can finally
afford tea if you thought iPhones were
hot you haven't seen anything yet so
that's for next time the China history
podcast history of tea series is brought
to you by the spirit of tea a book and
travelling exhibition by tea lover and
photographer Matthew London the spirit
of tea is a fresh look into the ancient
yet vibrant world of Chinese tea culture
through Matthews stunning photographs
from an epic four year journey
throughout mainland China Taiwan Hong
Kong and Macau they son his philosophy
of the five elements of tea along with
masterpiece Chinese paintings and poetry
the spirit of tea takes you deep into
the heart of the birthplace of tea and
offers profound insight into the essence
and beauty of Chinese tea wisdom Matthew
London is giving away five signed
photographic prints from the spirit of
tea each episode
head on over to www.hsn.com enter e e en
shuya the cool shirt that i mentioned in
part one about tea featuring his project
which was seen by hundreds of millions
of people in China plus me too until
that time this is your host and humble
narrator Laszlo Montgomery once again
signing off from beautiful in lovely
Southern Cali consider coming back next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast